<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en"
      lang="en">
    <head>
        <title>MUSHROOMS RUSSIA AND HISTORY &#8212;&#8203; Appendix I</title>
        <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>

    <body>
        <header>
            <h1>APPENDIX I<br />Mushrooms in Tolstoy&#8217;s &#8216;Anna
                Karenina&#8217;</h1>
        </header>
        <section class="main" epub:type="bodymatter appendix">
            <p><span class="initial">T</span>hrice in <i>Anna Karenina</i>
                Leo Tolstoy brings mushroom-gathering into his story, and on each occasion with a naturalness, a tenderness, that any perceptive reader will find memorable. We have summarized one of these citations in our text. Here are the other two.</p>

            <p>In Chapter 8 of Part in we discover Darya Alexandrovna in the country with her brood of small children and the English Governess, Miss Hull. It is the month of May. The children have returned from Church, where, according to the Orthodox custom, they have taken Holy Communion. At first, under the influence of that solemn occasion, they were models of behavior. But at dinner Grisha whistled, and besides he was rude to Miss Hull. As a punishment, she deprived him of his tart. There were tears, and cries of injustice, and Grisha left the table, seeking the consolation of solitude by the window in the drawing room. His elder sister Tanya, under the pretext that she wished to share her tart with her dolls, also departed. Darya Alexandrovna felt that Miss Hull had been too severe, but of course supported her authority. Afterwards she was on her way to ask the governess to relent and forgive the culprit, when she discovered Tanya sharing her tart with Grisha in the drawing room, both of the children sobbing from shared emotion. She was overcome by the touching spectacle. On the spot she forgave Grisha, and then dispersed the clouds by laughing at the way their faces were smeared with tart and tears, and making them laugh too, and then, to cap it all, she gave orders for everyone to put on old clothes and go mushroom-gathering. At once the nursery was filled with shrieks of ecstasy. Soon they were all in the woods. They filled a basket with mushrooms. Even little Lily found a birch-mushroom. In the past Miss Hull had always found mushrooms for Lily to pick, but this time Lily really found a big one all by herself, and everyone screamed with delight: &#8220;Lily has found a mushroom!&#8221;</p>

            <p>The second episode, in Chapter 5 of Part vi, is an exquisite vignette of distinctive Russian behavior. Sergej Ivanovich, a landowner, is in love with the governess Varvara Andreevna and wishes to propose to her, and with this intention goes out to find her in the woods where she is gathering mushrooms with the children. She senses his purpose and is receptive. As he starts out looking for her, he talks to himself, rehearsing the little speech that he wishes to make. And now we shall translate Tolstoy&#8217;s words.</p>

            <blockquote>
                <p>&#8220;Varvara Andreevna, when I was still young, I conceived the ideal woman whom I should love and be happy to call my wife. I have lived a long time and now at last in you I discover what I have always sought. I love you and offer you my hand.&#8221;</p>

                <p>This is what Sergej Ivanovich was saying to himself as he approached Varen&#8217;ka, who was shielding a mushroom from Grisha and calling to little Masha: "Look! Look! Lots of little mushrooms!" her voice warm and throaty.</p>

                <p>When she saw Sergey Ivanovich coming up to her, she did not rise, nor even change her position, yet something told him she knew he was there and was glad.</p>

                <p>&#8220;Have you found any?&#8221; she asked, turning up to him her beautiful, soft, smiling face, rimmed with a white kerchief.</p>

                <p>&#8220;Not one,&#8221; said he. &#8220;And you?&#8221;</p>

                <p>She did not answer but busied herself with the children. &#8220;There is another, near the branch,&#8221; and she pointed out to Masha a small <i>syroezhka,</i> whose stalwart pink cap had been bisected by a blade of grass. Varen&#8217;ka rose when Masha picked up the <i>syroezhka,</i> breaking it in two. &#8220;This brings back childhood days,&#8221; she added, and walked away from the children by the side of Sergej Ivanovich. They took a few steps in silence. Varen&#8217;ka saw that he wished to talk, and guessed about what. She was breathless with excitement, joy, and fear. They had gone far enough so that no one could hear them, yet he did not speak. It would have been best if Varen&#8217;ka had kept still. After a spell of silence, it would have been easier for them to say all they had to say. But against her will, as if by accident, Varen&#8217;ka spoke.</p>

                <p>&#8220;So you found nothing? Of course, they are always scarcest in the middle of the woods.&#8221;</p>

                <p>Sergej Ivanovich sighed and said nothing. He was vexed: why had she brought back the subject of mushrooms? He would have liked her to return to what she had said about childhood. But then he also, after a pause, and as though against his will, went on where she left off:</p>

                <p>&#8220;I had thought that only the cep was confined to the fringes of the woods, but then I can&#8217;t recognize a cep.&#8221;</p>

                <p>More minutes passed. They were far from the children and quite alone. Varen&#8217;ka felt her heart beating. She felt that she was turning red, then white, and then red again.</p>

                <p>To be the wife of a man like Koznyshev, after her situation in the household of Mrs. Stahl, seemed to her like the peak of happiness. Besides, she was almost sure that she was in love with him. And now all this was to be decided. She felt frightened, frightened at what he might or might not say.</p>

                <p>His declaration had to be made now or never: so Sergej Ivanovich said to himself. Everything in her looks &#8212;&#8203; her blush, her lowered eyelids &#8212;&#8203; showed Varen&#8217;ka&#8217;s painful expectation. Sergej Ivanovich noticed it and pitied her. He also realized that if he said nothing, his silence would hurt her. Again he repeated to himself all the reasons in favor of proposing, he repeated to himself the little speech that was to express his intentions. But instead, under some strange impulse, he finally asked, &#8220;And what is then the difference between the cep and the birch-mushroom?&#8221;</p>

                <p>Varen&#8217;ka&#8217;s lips trembled as she replied: &#8220;There is almost no difference in the cap. The difference is in the stem.&#8221;</p>

                <p>And the instant she uttered those words, she knew and he knew that everything was over, and that what ought to have been said would never be said. Their tension, having reached its peak, began to subside.</p>

                <p>&#8220;The birch-mushroom &#8212;&#8203; its stem reminds one of a two-days&#8221; beard on a swarthy man,&#8221; said Sergej Ivanovich, quite calmly.</p>

                <p>&#8220;You are quite right!&#8221; said Varen&#8217;ka, and she smiled. Without thinking they turned their steps back to the children. Varen&#8217;ka felt hurt and ashamed, and at the same time a sense of relief came over her.</p>
            </blockquote>

            <p class="pull-right"><i>Translated by</i> VPW <i>and</i> RGW</p>
        </section>
    </body>
</html>
