<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en"
      lang="en">
    <head>
        <title>MUSHROOMS RUSSIA AND HISTORY - Bibliographical Notes and Acknowledgements</title>
        <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet"
              type="text/css" />
        <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />             
    </head>

    <body>
        <h1>BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTES AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS</h1>

        <section class="main" epub:type="bibliography">
            <p><span class="initial">T</span>HE amateur of wild mushrooms is interested in everything written on the subject. Few scientific papers are too refined for his palate. The strange blunders often cropping out in popular writings delight him for their piquancy. In cut-and-dried mushroom manuals he always knows that at any moment he may come across wayward remarks of the compilers that show how even they are moved by the beauty or strangeness of the creatures they describe. An extraordinary example of this eruption of the poetic muse in the course of a pedestrian text about mushrooms is to be found in a certain Swiss manual published more than sixty years ago: it is so unusual that we offer it in full to our readers in Appendix III.</p>

            <p>In general the mushroom amateur, when it comes to his library, must be content with fare served for others &#8212;&#8203; texts written for beginners or treatises for scientists. The writings about mushrooms aimed at the informed amateur are few. As he embarks on the assembling of a collection, he will do well to begin by acquiring a complete set of the publications since 1936 of the Laboratoire de Cryptogamie, at the Museum National d&#8217;Histoire Naturelle in Paris. This is the period of Professor Roger Heim&#8217;s editorship of the <i>Revue de Mycologie.</i> Professor Heim is a leading mycologist. What is more rare, he is a scientist steeped in the humanities who writes with style. He has the magnetism of the great teachers, and has drawn into the circle of subscribers to his <i>Revue</i> a group of enthusiasts who contribute delightful and sophisticated articles to various <i>Supplements</i> of the review, which are expressly directed to initiated amateurs. Two outstanding members of this select fraternity are Georges Becker and Camille Fauvel, whose essays on wild mushrooms, poles apart in style and mood, are destined to be regarded as classics by the devotees of our avocation. The <i>Revue de Mycologie</i> offers its readers a <i>Chronique de I&#8217;amateur, La Chronique anecdotique,</i> a practical course in mycology for amateurs, excellent color plates of mushrooms, scientific supplements shedding light on the fascinating jungle of tropical mushroom life, and finally occasional treatises on special topics. Who will ever match that Savoyard, the prodigious Dr. Paul Ramain, for example, who in his <i>Essai de Mycogastronomie</i> sets forth with delicate discrimination the merits (or shortcomings) for gastronomes of each of 245 species of edible mushrooms, all from his personal experience! He sets forth the astonishing facts about what we might call the &#8216;vintage years&#8217; for mushrooms: it is clear that mushrooms taste better in some years than others, and in some regions than others. No mushroom fancier should rest content so long as he is unfamiliar with the breathtaking performance of Dr. Ramain.<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="#bib-fn1" id="bib-r1">[1]</a></sup> The presiding genius in this circle of mycophiles is of course the Maitre, Professor Heim, whose own contributions are always notable events. Especially among English readers, nature writing enjoys high status as a genre of belles lettres. Roger Heim is to be ranked with the aristocrats of this goodly company. His paper delivered in February 1946 on &#8216;Les Rapports entre les Insectes et les Champignons&#8217; displayed a dual excellence, scientific and literary, of the highest order, all the more moving for the informed few who know that this essay, for all its air of serene detachment, was read in the wake of a terrible ordeal. Two years later Professor Heim published a book, <i>Les Champignons,</i> original in conception, of rare quality, which is a treasure for connoisseurs of nature writing and for all lovers of mushrooms.</p>

            <p>Outside of the Heim circle there are other mushroomic publications for amateurs, but few in number and uneven in quality. One of the good books, in its way, is Jules Amann&#8217;s <i>Mes Chasses aux Champignons,</i> published in Lausanne in 1925. In English there is <i>The Romance of the Fungus World,</i> by R. T. and F. W. Rolfe, published in London in 1925, written without literary distinction but containing an immense amount of information never theretofore assembled. We gladly acknowledge our debt to the Rolfes for various data and historical references; as we do also to John Ramsbottom, best known of contemporary English mycologists, for the wealth of information in his <i>Mushrooms &amp; Toadstools,</i> London, 1953, which reached us just in time for us to make some use of it.</p>

            <p>In America the amateur of mushrooms is hobbled by the lack of a first-class field manual, comparable in the mycological field to Roger Tory Peterson&#8217;s manual for the birds. America&#8217;s library of nature books is rich in quality and quantity, but a good mushroom manual is a prime desideratum. This deficiency is itself evidence of the wide-spread mycophobia in America, and serves to perpetuate it. There are excellent works by American mycologists that cover various parts of the vast terrain, but no all-embracing pocket guide in a class with <i>Les Champignons de France,</i> by A. Maublanc, or <i>A Handbook of the Larger British Fungi,</i> by John Ramsbottom, in England. In the absence of a manual for America, these two European works, which are complementary rather than overlapping, are in our opinion the most serviceable for the United States and Canada, in spite of the differences in the fungal population of the two continents.</p>

            <p>The compilation of our book has proved an easier and pleasanter task than the reader might suppose. Our secret lay in formulating the right questions, and then submitting them to the right specialists, in whom knowledge and graciousness were equally blended. Such learning as we may have appeared to possess in Chapters IV and V is thus no more than a synthesis of other people&#8217;s; but the responsibility for the synthesis, for better or for worse, must rest with us. In our preface and in the course of our pages we have already recognized our obligations to many. We now give ourselves the pleasure of acknowledging our debts to some of the others.</p>

            <p>We are grateful to Professor Georg Morgenstierne of Oslo not only for the rich budget of data concerning the Iranian and Indie peoples that he sent us over the course of many months, but even more for the constant interest that he displayed in our researches. We are grateful to Dr. Hans Mardersteig for his patience in handling our printing problems. We are especially grateful to Mr. Ronald H. Boothroyd of Verona, who not only nursed our proofs into final shape but by his perspicacious reading of our manuscript saved us from pitfalls and suggested to us new avenues of inquiry.</p>

            <p>In our African inquiries we are primarily indebted to Professor Archie N. Tucker of London; to Mr. Jalo Gombe, in North Nigeria; and to Mr. M. B. Nsimbi of Kampala, Uganda. But we wish also to acknowledge the negative evidence produced for us through inquiries in the field by Monsieur R. Hainaut, manager of the Banque Beige d&#8217;Afrique in Bangui; by the Reverend Father Tisserant, resident specialist in the native languages of that area; and by the Rev. Paul F. Metzler at Fort Archambault, the Rev. Dr. O. D. Jobson at Bozoum, and the Rev. T. B. Wimer. Mr. Stavro Skendi of New York supplied us with our information about Albanian usages. Professor Elliott V. K. Dobbie of Columbia University advised us in Anglo-Saxon matters; Mons. 1&#8217;Abbe Falc&#8217;hun of the Faculte des Lettres in Rennes replied to our questions concerning the Breton vocabulary; and Professor Dr. G. G. Kloeke of the University of Leiden kindly assembled for us a wealth of dialectical terms in Dutch. Professor Joshua Whatmough of Harvard was especially helpful on two Late Latin problems, and Professor Taylor Starck on questions of Low German dialects. The Rev. Dr. Edgar F. Romig turned up certain words in Pennsylvania Dutch for us, and on Frisian questions we relied on our friends M. Wiegersma of Drachten and J. J. van Weringh of Leeuwarden. Professor Dimitry Cizevsky of Harvard, Mrs. Michael Karpovich, and Countess Alexandra Tolstoy were generous in suggestions drawn from their rich experience and fabulous knowledge concerning Russian and Ukrainian traditions. On various Slavic matters we were the grateful recipients of many suggestions and help from Professor Wiktor Weintraub of Harvard University, Madame Milada Souckova, Max Eastman, and the late Professor Alexander A. Vasiliev. Dr. John P. Hughes gave us aid with Irish problems; as did with respect to Welsh Professor Robert A. Fowkes of Columbia University, Professor T. H. Parry Williams of the University College of Wales, and Miss Nansi Pugh of the Brearley School. We turned to Professor Yakov Malkiel of the University of California and Professor Juan Corominas of Chicago for help in Spanish and Portuguese linguistics; and our friend Luiz Marques, of Lisbon, also supplied us with information. We are indebted to Don Felix Martorell, distinguished son of Constant! near Tarragona, and to his daughters for having made known to us by infectious demonstration the passion for mushrooms that possesses the Catalan people. Our loyal friend Andre Chavaneau, bowing to our mania for recondite pursuits, graciously conducted us on our first pilgrimage to Serignan, in the Vaucluse. Mr. Peter D&#8217;Albert of New York was our informant about Romansch. Madame Elisabeth Kayaloff and Fat&#8217;ma Hanoum Natirbov guided us in Circassian questions, and facilitated our access to information about certain other Caucasian peoples. On Eskimo matters Professor L. L. Hammerich of Copenhagen was our mentor, and for Aleutian words we consulted Dr. Gordon H. Marsh.</p>

            <p>In the Finno-Ugric field we relied on Professor Paavo Ravila of Helsinki and Professor John Lotz of Columbia University. Professor Georges Dumezil of the College de France drew our attention to the passage in Saxo Grammaticus that we quote. We are indebted to Dr. Kaj Jespersen of Copenhagen for clarifying certain Danish usages, and to Professor Rolf Nordhagen of Oslo for Norwegian dialectical terms. Raymond T. Bond, John D. Gordan, and Alexander Pinney, all of New York, will discover traces of their influence in our pages, as will Mrs. Arthur L. Goodhart of Oxford, Eric Whittle of Foulby, near Wakefield, in Yorkshire, and Professor Georges Malvesin-Fabre of Bordeaux. Dr. Frederick D. Lascoff and Professor Fanchon Hart of New York helped us with certain pharmacological questions. Our friend Nicholas Kazenchak, native of Slovakia, and Mrs. Irene Pulaski guided us in the mycological folk knowledge of the Slovakian peasants. We also received help from individuals inside Rumania, Bulgaria, and Hungary, whom we must thank anonymously.</p>

            <p>In Semitics we are under great obligations to Professor Thomas W. Thacker, head of the School for Oriental Studies in the University of Durham, and to his colleagues, A. J. M. Craig and E. Birnbaum. Others of the same distinguished faculty who gave us valuable suggestions in oriental languages other than Semitic were Arabinda Basu, C. G. Simpson, J. A. Emerton, and R. Dawson. When it came to the kinship of Tartuffe with truffles, we addressed our questions to Professor Frederic G. Hoffherr, then at Columbia University; to Professor Alfredo Schiaffrni of the University of Rome; and to Professor Vincenzo Perniconi, the authority on Lorenzo Lippi. Dr. Giorgio Cigliana-Piazza cooperated with us in other inquiries in Italy.</p>

            <p>Dr. C. J. <span id='abegg'>Abegg</span> of Zurich introduced us to Professor Dr. Phil. Leonhard von Muralt of the University of Zurich, who in turn enlisted for us the aid of the apothecary Emil Eidenbenz of that city in connection with the odd mushroomic behavior attributed to Russian troops who occupied Zurich in 1799. Mr. Hans Miiller and Mr. H. de Mandach of the Union Bank of Switzerland introduced us to Dr. J. Schlittler, Pilzkontrolleur of Zurich, who gave us his valued opinion on the &#8216;mushroom stone&#8217; in the Rietberg Museum. To the authorities of that Museum we are indebted for their cooperation in obtaining photographs of the artifact. Mr. Felix Schulthess of the Credit Suisse has given us both encouragement and important help.</p>

            <p>In the introduction to our book we have spoken of our obligation to the staff of the New York Public Library. We have also been generously helped by Miss Elizabeth C. Hall, Librarian of the New York Botanical Garden; Miss Hazel Gay, Librarian of the American Museum of Natural History, New York; Miss Meta Harssen of the Pierpont Morgan Library; and the staff of the Frick Library, New York. Mr. Herman Sharon aided us with the text of Konrad von Megenberg&#8217;s <i>Das Buck der Natur.</i></p>

            <p>Charles M. Bogert, Chairman and Curator of the Department of Amphibians and Reptiles at the American Museum of Natural History, New York, demonstrated some of the ways of toads to us, and his staff were also patient with our inquiries. Dr. Donald P. Rogers, Curator of the New York Botanical Gardens, kindly replied to our various mushroomic questions, as did a number of other American mycologists: Dr. Carroll W. Dodge, Mrs. Alma H. Beers, and Clyde M. Christensen. Mademoiselle Suzanne Pretot was similarly helpful in Paris. On all ethno-botanical matters, Dr. Hugh C. Cutler, Assistant Director of the Missouri Botanical Museum, was a fount of valuable information, graciously given.</p>

            <p>In matters of art, Gaston van Camp, Conservateur of the Musees Royaux des Beaux Arts de Belgique, turned up much of the material for our discussion of mushrooms in painting. Professor Erwin Panofsky of the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton and Professor Meyer Schapiro of Columbia University were gracious and helpful in responding to all our inquiries. Miss Margaret Alice Murray referred us to the two passages in English chronicles and trials where toads figured in attempts at murder. Mr. Edouard de Cosse Brissac was the first to bring to our attention the tapestries at Reims depicting Clovis in his pagan days going forth to war under the standard of the toads or <i>hots.</i> In the realm of medieval science, Professor Lynn Thorndike put his great erudition at our service. Mrs. Michael Majolier ran down certain elusive facts for us in London, and Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Kelleher in Italy. Mr. Roger Tory Peterson has identified for us certain birds in the Old Masters. Mr. David McCurrach and Mr. Ronald G. Cant, both of St. Andrews, Fife, have done their best to trace for us the Scottish origins of the Hamilton dynasty of painters. Mr. &amp; Mrs. Warren Delano Robbins kindly pursued certain inquiries for us in Paris.</p>

            <p>We submitted our theory (originally suggested by Mr. Robert Graves) concerning the Etruscan mirror to a number of specialists in the field: Mr. Bernard Ashmole, Keeper of Greek and Roman Antiquities of the British Museum, Professor Axel Boethius of Goteborg University, Professor Waldemar Deonna of Geneva, and Professor Charles Picard of Paris. They were hospitable to our suggestions, and without committing themselves encouraged us to pursue our inquires and publish our conclusions. Mr. W. T. O&#8217;Dea of the Science Museum, South Kensington, helped us with problems of tinder and fire-making, as did Professor N. Fabritius Buchwald of Copenhagen. Professor Boethius was helpful to us on many occasions when we turned to him for advice. David Murison, editor of the Scottish National Dictionary, volunteered various references that proved fruitful, and Mr. Peter Cooper of Bristol, England, helped to clarify certain confusing aspects of Devonshire usage. We thank Mr. David Chandler for his enthusiastic support of our inquiries.</p>

            <p>Professor Sanchez Canton, head of the Prado Museum, and his colleague Don Manuel Lorente Junquera, facilitated our inquiries in Madrid in every way. We are grateful to the former for drawing our attention to Mayno&#8217;s <i>Adoration,</i> and to the latter for revealing to us the mushrooms on the back of the panels of Bosch&#8217;s <i>Garden of Delight.</i></p>

            <p>The General Director of the Bavarian State Gallery at Munich, Professor Dr. Ernst Buchner, helped and encouraged us in our quest for old masters with mushrooms, as did also Dr. Ludwig Miinz, the Director of the Picture Gallery of the Academy of Plastic Arts in Vienna. Professor Amedeo Maiuri of the Museo Nazionale in Naples was indispensable in enlisting the skilled services of Comm. Professor Gennaro Luciano for the reproduction of the Herculaneum fresco, as well as in other ways. We are also grateful to Mr. Carlo Pascal and Mr. Enzo Rossi of the Banco di Napoli for their patience in pursuing the answers to our various inquiries concerning art treasures in the Naples area. Mr. C. A. Wertheim Aymes of Amsterdam was tireless in turning up Old Masters with mushrooms in the Netherlands and Germany, and we are similarly indebted to Dr. Carlo Bombieri of the Banca Commerciale Italiana in Milan. Dr. William E. Suida of the Kress Foundation drew our attention to the oeuvre of Giuseppe Arcimboldo. Mr. Wango Weng executed the Chinese characters that we use, and for other help in the Chinese field we thank Dr. Chih Meng, Director of the China Institute in America. We are grateful to Mr. &amp; Mrs. Pierre Chadenet for their timely help. Our five maps were executed for us by our friend John P. Tremblay of the American Geographical Society.</p>

            <p>In the section on our Middle American inquiries we have mentioned most of those who helped us, but we should be derelict if we did not add the names of certain others: Lie. Alfonso Caso, Director of the Institute Nacional Indigenista, Arq. Ignacio Marquina, Director of the Institute Nacional de Antropologia e Historia, and for his great erudition in Nahuatl linguistics Professor Wigberto Jimenez Moreno, all of Mexico. Above all we wish to express our deepest appreciation to Don Agustin Legorreta, President of the Banco Nacional de Mexico, and his colleague Don Ladislao Lopez Negrete, as well as to the Bank itself, for the way in which they furthered our plans by introducing us to the appropriate persons and by placing at our disposal their private plane, piloted by that excellent airman, Captain Carlos Borja. Without such hospitable cooperation we could have accomplished little. In Mexico we were pressed for time, and Mexico is not a country that takes time into account. Don Agustin and his Bank knew how to gear our necessities with Mexican ways. In Guatemala, in addition to the Borhegyis, we were helped and encouraged by Mr. and Mrs. Charles Salino. In both Mexico and Guatemala the General Motors Acceptance Corporation saw to it that we never lacked means of highway locomotion, for which we thank them. At the New York end of our Middle American quest, Dr. Gordon F. Ekholm of the American Museum of Natural History gave us indispensable assistance, as did also the American Geographical Society and its director, Mr. Charles Hitchcock. We have mentioned repeatedly the help given to us by various members of the Summer Institute of Linguistics. To those already named we now gladly add John Mclntosh, the Director of the Mexican activities, which he supervises from the headquarters in Mexico City known as &#8216;the Kettle&#8217;. Mr. Alexander C. Herman, vice president of the National Container Corporation, helped us solve a troublesome logistical problem on our Mexican trips.</p>

            <p>By their pressing encouragement and the stream of their fruitful suggestions for further inquiries on our part, made we hope without malice prepense, a number of our friends allowed us no alternative but to complete our undertaking. However questionable their intentions and judgment, we are grateful to them: Roman Jakobson, Rene Lafon, Adriaan Barnouw, Andre Martinet, Kurt Wolff, and Robert Graves, all of whom read our manuscript or the proofs. In a special category we acknowledge our heavy indebtedness to Edwin Way Teale and to Evgenia Lehovich.</p>
        </section>
        
        <section class="footnotes">
            <ol>
                <li epub:type="footnote" id="bib-fn1">In the spring of 1954 there appeared Paul Ramain&#8217;s <i>Mycogastronomie</i>, published in Paris in a limited edition by Les Bibliophiles Gastronomes. Here we find scores of princely recipes for different species of mushrooms, including even two desserts: Salades d&#8217;Oronges a l&#8217;Orange and Pezizes Orangees Ali-Bab.&#160;<a href="#bib-r1">&#8617;</a></li>
            </ol>
        </section>
    </body>
</html>
