<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
    <head>
        <title>MUSHROOMS RUSSIA AND HISTORY - Chapter V</title>
        <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet"
              type="text/css" />
        <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" /> 
    </head>

    <body>
        <h1>V<br />
            The Riddle of the Toadstool<br />
            and Other Secrets Mushroomic</h1>

        <div>
            <blockquote class="quote pull-right">
                <p>[Fungi] quod comesti frequenter oppilant vias spirituum<br/>
                    animalium in capite, et inducunt insaniam.</p>

                <footer><cite>ALBERTUS MAGNUS, De vegetabilibus.</cite></footer>
            </blockquote>
        </div>
        
        <div class="main">
            <p><span class="initial">T</span>OADSTOOL is a strange term, and doubly strange because no one in our word-conscious times seems to have paused to look at it. Toads do not sit on wild fungi, nor under nor around them; neither do they eat them. Indeed toads and frogs have no direct physical or biological link with toadstools. Our word, with roots deep in our folkways, is not, in any way obvious to us, a distillate of man&#8217;s observation of nature. The Oxford Dictionary says it is a &#8216;fanciful&#8217; name, and thus sidesteps a riddle. Not infrequently commercial artists and fanciful illustrators of children&#8217;s books represent toads with toadstools, and occasionally even photographers contrive by trickery<sup><a epub:type="noteref" href="#cp5-fn1" id="cp5-r1">[1]</a></sup> to juxtapose the two. In every such instance they draw their inspiration from the word, not from nature.</p>

            <p>Why &#8216;toadstool&#8217;; This question sank its spurs in us some years ago and pricked us onwards, until soon we found ourselves launched on a pilgrimage to far-off places and remote times, to the frontiers of men's knowledge and beyond, where we sought to discern vistas behind the beginnings of recorded history. Through the worn faces of familiar words we re-discovered things that civilized men had forgotten. We may have found, in the end, successive answers to our toadstool riddle, layer beneath layer, as well as answers to a number of other fungal mysteries that reared their challenging heads along our path. The measure of our success will be the cogency of certain problems of larger scope that seem to emerge from our argument, problems that we gladly bequeath to others.</p>
        </div>

        <div class="footnotes">
            <ol>
            <li epub:type="footnote" id="cp5-fn1">Thus on Nov. 8, 1930, The Times published a sequence of six photographs showing a toad as it approached a boletus, clambered up on the cap, and finally sat there. Dr. John Ramsbottom reprinted four of these in his Mushrooms &amp; Toadstools, Collins, London, 1953, facing p. 287. The photographer, Neville Kingston, died in the 1930&#8217;s. The Times kindly supplied us with his original series of seven photographs, and by internal evidence it is clear that they do not record a spontaneous happening in nature. Innocent and playful in intent, and delightful as one more example of man&#8217;s undying loyalty to cherished error, these photographs must be docketed as nature fakes. Toads when slightly chilled become lethargic and lend themselves to posing, a secret undoubtedly known to Kingston.&#160;<a href="#cp5-r1">&#8617;</a></li>
            </ol>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
