<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en"
      lang="en">
    <head>
        <title>eBook Edition Notes</title>
        <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>

    <body>
        <h1>Notes on the eBook edition</h1>

        <p>This eBook edition was compiled and typeset by&#160;<a href="mailto:kit@nocturne.net.nz">Bayard Randel</a>. It was&#160;derived from the&#160;<a href="http://www.newalexandria.org/archive/">New Alexandria Archive</a>&#160;digital edition pdf, which was scanned from the original copy no. 37, and hand corrected by Igor Dolgov, Zachary Jones, and Greg Golden.</p>

        <h2>Changes from the original text</h2>

        <p>In order to adapt this work to eBook formats, a number of changes have been made:</p>

        <ol>
            <li>While <i>Mushrooms, Russia and History</i> was originally published in two volumes, both volumes are presented here as a single eBook for convenience. References to volumes in the text have been removed.</li>

            <li>As eBook page layouts are fluid and device dependant, the position of figures and plates have been changed to improve clarity.</li>

            <li>Footnotes are rendered at the end of chapters and numbered per chapter rather than per page.</li>

            <li>References to page numbers from the original text have been removed. Links instead are provided from appendicies and indicies.</li>
        </ol>

        
        <h2>Changes from the New Alexandria Archive digital edition pdf</h2>
            <ol>
              <li>Where possible, OCR errors have been corrected.</li>
            </ol>
    </body>
</html>
