<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en"
      lang="en">
    <head>
        <title>MUSHROOMS RUSSIA AND HISTORY - Plates and Illustrations</title>
        <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>

    <body>
        <h1>List of Plates and Illustrations</h1>

        <h2><a id="list-of-plates">LIST OF PLATES</a></h2>

        <h3><a>Titlepage</a></h3>
        <ol>
            <li><a href="../Text/title_page.html#plate-0" style="font-size: 1em; line-height: 1.2;">JEAN-HENRI FABRE. Coprinus nycthemerus Fr.</a>&#160;<br /></li>
        </ol>

        <h3>Text</h3>

        <ol class="plate-list">
            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_1.html#plate-1">JEAN-HENRI FABRE. Boletus edulis Fr. ex Bull.</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_1.html#plate-2">JEAN-HENRI FABRE. Coprinus comatus Fr. ex Mull.</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_1.html#plate-3">JEAN-HENRI FABRE. Clathrus cancellatus Lin. ex Tournef.</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_1.html#plate-4">JEAN-HENRI FABRE. Collybia fusipes Fr. ex Bull.</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_2.html#plate-5">THOMAS GAINSBOROUGH. The Mushroom Girl. By courtesy of the Museum of&#160;Fine Arts, Boston (Mass.).</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_2.html#plate-6">JEAN-HENRI FABRE. Arrnillariella mellea (Fr. ex Vahl) Pat.</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_3.html#plate-7">JEAN-HENRI FABRE. Rhodopaxillus nudus (Fr. ex Bull.) R. Maire.</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_4.html#plate-8">JEAN-HENRI FABRE. Boletus duriusculus Kalchbr.</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_4.html#plate-9">JEAN-HENRI FABRE. Amanita csesarea Fr. ex Scop.</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_4.html#plate-10">JEAN-HENRI FABRE. Amanita phalloides Fr.</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_4.html#plate-11">JEAN-HENRI FABRE. <i>Danse Macabre:</i> Amanita verna Fr. ex Bull.</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_1.html#plate-12">HIERONYMUS BOSCH. The Last Judgment. Detail: Spitting toad. <i>By courtesy of the Bayerische Staatsgemdldesammlungen, Munich.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_2.html#plate-13">HIERONYMUS BOSCH. The Seven Deadly Sins. Detail: Superbia. <i>By courtesy of the Prado Museum, Madrid.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_3.html#plate-14">Conversion of Clovis. Tapestry in the Musee de Reims showing King Clovis in the battle of Tolbiac, his instruction in Christian doctrine by St. Remi, and his baptism. Woven in 1531. <i>By courtesy of the Caisse Nationale des Monuments Historiques, Paris.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_3.html#plate-15">HIERONYMUS BOSCH. The Hay Wain. Central Panel. <i>By courtesy of the Prado Museum, Madrid.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_3.html#plate-16">HIERONYMUS BOSCH. The Hay Wain. Detail. <i>By courtesy of the Prado Museum, Madrid.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_3.html#plate-17">HIERONYMUS BOSCH. The Hay Wain. Detail: Boletus. <i>By courtesy of the Prado Museum, Madrid.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_4.html#plate-18">JEAN-HENRI FABRE. Boletus Satanas Lenz.</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_5.html#plate-19">JEAN-HENRI FABRE. Lycoperdon furfuraceum Pers. ex Schaeff.</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_5.html#plate-20">Napoleonic caricature. <i>By courtesy of Frank Altschul, Esq., Overbrook Farm, Stamford, Conn.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_7.html#plate-21">Etruscan Mirror. Ixion on his wheel. <i>By courtesy of the British Museum, London.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_7.html#plate-22">Fomes officinalis. Miniature from a 10<sup>th</sup> century Byzantine codex (No. 652) of Dioscorides. <i>By courtesy of The Pierpont Morgan Library, New York.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_7.html#plate-23">JEAN-HENRI FABRE. Morchella vulgaris Pers.</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_8.html#plate-24">JAN FYT. Still life. <i>By courtesy of the Musees Royaux des Beaux-Arts de Belgique, Brussels.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_8.html#plate-25">JAN DAVIDSZ. DE HEEM. Still life. <i>By courtesy of the Wallace Collection, London.</i> 128</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_8.html#plate-26">ADRIAEN VAN UTRECHT. Still life. By <i>courtesy of the Musees Royaux des Beaux-Arts de Belgique, Brussels.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_8.html#plate-27">Frontispiece to Franciscus van Sterbeeck's <i>Theatrum Fungorum,</i> Antwerp, 1675. 128</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_8.html#plate-28">GIUSEPPE ARCIMBOLDO. Autumn. <i>By courtesy of the Pinacoteca, Brescia.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_8.html#plate-29">GIUSEPPE ARCIMBOLDO. Autumn: Detail. <i>By courtesy of the Pinacoteca, Brescia.</i> 132</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_8.html#plate-30">JEAN-HENRI FABRE. Psalliota campestris Fr. ex L.</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_9.html#plate-31">JEAN-HENRI FABRE. Lactarius piperatus Fr. ex Scop.</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_11.html#plate-32">TUBER. Miniature from a 10<sup>th</sup> century Byzantine codex (No. 652) of Dioscorides. <i>By courtesy of The Pierpont Morgan Library, New York.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_12.html#plate-33">Toads in Hell. Detail from a painting by the pseudo-Herri met de Bles. Venice, Ducal Palace. <i>Photo by Fiorentini, Venice.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_12.html#plate-34">Toad. Detail from a mosaic in the Battistero, Florence. <i>Photo by Fratelli Alinari, Florence.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_13.html#plate-35">JEAN-HENRI FABRE. Amanita muscaria Fr. ex Pers.</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_13.html#plate-36">HIERONYMUS BOSCH. The Hay Wain. Left Panel. <i>By courtesy of the Prado Museum, Madrid.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_13.html#plate-37">OTTO MARSEUS VAN SCHRIECK. Moth with mushrooms. <i>By courtesy of the Offentliche Kunstsammlung, Bale.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_14.html#plate-38">JEAN-HENRI FABRE. Boletus duriusculus Kalchbr.</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_14.html#plate-39">JEAN-HENRI FABRE. Panseolus campanulatus Fr. ex L.</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_14.html#plate-40">Ceremonial mushrooms. <i>Water-color by Michelle Bory.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_14.html#plate-41">Accessories to the mushroom rite. <i>Water-color by VPW.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_14.html#plate-42">Aurelio Carreras, curandero, and his son Mauro. Huautla de Jimenez, July 5, 1955. <i>Photo by Allan Richardson.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_14.html#plate-43">Mushroom stone. Attributed to early classic period, Highland Maya, c. 300 A.D. to c. 600 A.D. About 30 cm. high. <i>By courtesy of the Rietberg Museum, Zurich.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_14.html#plate-44">Mushroom stone. <i>By courtesy of Hans Namuth, Esq., New York.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_14.html#plate-45">Cayetano's House, Huautla de Jimenez. June 1955. <i>Photo by RGW.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_15.html#plate-46">Maria Sabina and her daughter Polonia, curanderas. Huautla de Jimenez, June 29, 1955. <i>Photo by Allan Richardson.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_15.html#plate-47">Maria Sabina, curandera, passing mushrooms over incense (copal); also her daughter Polonia and Cayetano's mother. Huautla de Jimenez, June 29&#8211;&#8203;30, 1955&#8211;&#8203; <i>Photo by Allan Richardson.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_15.html#plate-48">Adoration of the mushroom. Maria Sabina, curandera, and her daughter Polonia. Huautla de Jimenez, June 29&#8211;&#8203;30, 1955. <i>Photo by Allan Richardson.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_15.html#plate-49">Emilio Garcia taking <i>Teo-nandcatl</i> or &#8216;God&#8217;s Flesh&#8217;. Huautla de Jimenez, June 29, 1955. <i>Photo by Allan Richardson.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_15.html#plate-50">L. Maria Sabina, curandera, and her son Aurelio under the influence of mushrooms. Huautla de Jimenez, June 29, 1955. Photo <i>by Allan Richardson.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_15.html#plate-51">Aristeo Matias with bowl of divine mushrooms. San Agustin Loxicha, July 22, 1955. <i>Photo by RGW.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_16.html#plate-52">Chinese sage contemplating <i>Ling-chih.</i> Painted by Chen Hung-shou (1599&#8211;&#8203;1652). <i>Reproduced by courtesy of Wango Wing, Esq.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_16.html#plate-53">Teopancalco fresco. Teotihuacan, in the Valley of Mexico. From Teotihuacan III period, A.D. 300&#8211;&#8203;600. <i>After Antonio Penafiel.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_16.html#plate-54">Detail of Tlaloc effigy, Tepantitla fresco. <i>Reproduced by Marilyn Weber.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_16.html#plate-55">Detail of Tepantitla fresco: Soul arriving on the playing fields of Paradise. Reproduced by Marilyn Weber.</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_18.html#plate-56">Illuminated initial from a 15<sup>th</sup> century manuscript (No. 165) of <i>Le Livre pour la Sante du Corps,</i> by Aldobrandino da Siena, 1256. <i>By courtesy of The Pierpont Morgan Library, New York.</i></a></li>

            <li>
              <ul>
                <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_18.html#plate-57">A. Mushrooms. Miniature from a p<sup>th</sup> century Greek codex (Grec 2179) of Dioscorides. <i>By courtesy of the Bibliotheque Nationals., Paris</i>.</a></li>
                <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_18.html#plate-57">B. Mushrooms. Miniature from an 11<sup>th</sup> century Arabic manuscript (Arabe of Dioscorides). <i>By courtesy of the Bibliotheque Nationale, Paris.</i></a></li>
              </ul>
            </li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_18.html#plate-58">Mushrooms. Miniature from a 10<sup>th</sup> century manuscript (No. 652) of Dioscorides. <i>By courtesy of The Pierpont Morgan Library, New York.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_19.html#plate-59">PIETER BRUEGHEL THE ELDER. The Misanthrope. <i>By courtesy of the Museo Nazionale, Naples.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_19.html#plate-60">PIETER BRUEGHEL THE ELDER. The Misanthrope. Detail. <i>By courtesy of the Museo Nazionale, Naples.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_19.html#plate-61">JUAN BAUTTSTA MAYNO. The Adoration of the Magi, c. 1610. <i>By courtesy of the Prado Museum, Madrid.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_19.html#plate-62">JUAN BAUTISTA MAYNO. The Adoration of the Magi, c. 1610. Detail. <i>By courtesy of the Prado Museum, Madrid.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_19.html#plate-63">HERRI MET DE BLES ('CIVETTA'). Christ bearing the Cross. <i>By courtesy of the Gemaldegalerie der Akademie der bildenden Kilnste, Vienna.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_19.html#plate-64">HERRI MET DE BLES ('CIVETTA'). Christ bearing the Cross. Detail. <i>By courtesy of the Gemaldegalerie der Akademie der bildenden Kilnste, Vienna.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_19.html#plate-65">OTTO MARSEUS VAN SCHRIECK. Poppy with mushrooms. <i>By courtesy of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_19.html#plate-66">OTTO MARSEUS VAN SCHRIECK. Mushrooms. <i>By courtesy of the Herzog Anton Ulrich Museum, Brunswick.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_19.html#plate-67">OTTO MARSEUS VAN SCHRIECK. Mushrooms. Detail. <i>By courtesy of the Herzog Anton Ulrich Museum, Brunswick.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_19.html#plate-68">PAOLO PORPORA, d. 1673. Still life. <i>By courtesy of the Soprintendenza alle Gallerie, Naples.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_19.html#plate-69">ABRAHAM BEGEYN. Still life. <i>By courtesy of the Galleria d'Arte Antica, Rome.</i> 358</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_19.html#plate-70">FRANS HAMILTON. Still life. <i>By courtesy of the Bayerische Staatsgemaldesamm-lungen, Munich.</i></a></li>


            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_19.html#plate-71">RACHEL RUYSCH. Still life. <i>By courtesy of the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford.</i> 358</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_19.html#plate-72">F. W. TAMM. Still life. <i>Private collection.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_19.html#plate-73">MELCHIOR DE HONDECOETER. Still life. <i>By courtesy of the Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_19.html#plate-74">MELCHIOR DE HONDECOETER. Still life. <i>By courtesy of the National Gallery, London.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_19.html#plate-75">SCHOOL OF ZURBARAN, 17<sup>th</sup>&#8212;&#8203;18<sup>th</sup> century. Chestnuts, cheese, grapes, almonds, and mushrooms, sp. tricholoma personatum. <i>By courtesy of the Art Institute of Chicago.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_19.html#plate-76">Mushrooms. From a fresco found at Herculaneum, probably executed about A.D. 50. <i>By courtesy of the Museo Nazionale, Naples.</i></a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_19.html#plate-77">The dream. Woodcut after J.J. Grandville. From the <i>Magasin Pittoresque, 1847.</i></a></li>
            
            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_20.html#plate-78">JEAN-HENRI FABRE. Lactarius deliciosus Fr. ex Lin.</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_20.html#plate-79">JEAN-HENRI FABRE. Lactarius sanguifluus Fr. ex Paul.</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/chapter_5_book_21.html#plate-80">JEAN-HENRI FABRE. Cantharellus cibarius Fr.</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/appendix_2.html#plate-81">JEAN-HENRI FABRE. Boletus scaber Fr. ex Bull. (B. leucophseus Pers.).</a></li>

            <li><a href="../Text/appendix_2.html#plate-82">JEAN-HENRI FABRE. Coprinus atramentarius Fr. ex Bull.</a></li>

            <li>JEAN-HENRI FABRE. Coprinus radiatus Fr. ex Bolt.</li>
        </ol>

        <p>All the colored reproductions of water-colors by Jean-Henri Fabre and Plates, <b>XX,</b> XL, XLI, LXXVI, were made by Daniel Jacomet, Paris. The other plates were printed by Fratelli Alinari, Florence.</p>
        
        <h2><a id="list-of-illustrations">LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS IN THE TEXT</a></h2>

        <ol class="illustration-list">
            <li>Earliest reference to Russian fungi in English. Page from Russian-English word-list of Richard James, 1619, citing five kinds of mushrooms without English equivalents: <i>ryzhik, guba, gruzd', volonitsa, grib.</i> Oxford, Bodleian Library, ms. James 43*. <i>By courtesy of the Curators of the Bodleian Library.</i></li>

            <li>Page from <i>Theatrum chemicum Britannicum,</i> by Elias Ashmole, London, 1652. 72</li>

            <li>Robin Goodfellow. From <i>The Mad
                Pranks and Merry Jests of Robin Goodfellow</i>, London,
                1639.</li>
            
            <li>Prince visiting fairy folk. From <i>Historia de Gentibus Septentrionalibus,</i> by Olaus Magnus, Rome, 1555.</li>

            <li>Fairy ring. From <i>Historia de Gentibus Septentrionalibus,</i> by Olaus Magnus, Rome, 1555.</li>

            <li>Description of Fomes officinalis. Last reported use in English of <i>swamp</i> in the sense of mushroom, referring to fungal growth on larch. From <i>Naturall Philosophic,</i> by Daniel Widdowes, 2nd edition, London, 1631.</li>

            <li>15<sup>th</sup> century woodcut of the agaricum. From <i>Hortus Sanitatis,</i> Mainz, 1491. 119</li>

            <li>Map showing distribution of fungal designation in Europe and Asia.</li>

            <li>Roman Tom Fool. From an engraved onyx, reproduced by Thomas Wright in <i>A History of Caricature and Grotesque in Literature and Art,</i> London, 1875. 165</li>

            <li>Tuber. Woodcut from the <i>Hortus Sanitatis,</i> Mainz, 1491.</li>

            <li>The Horned God. Prehistoric painting of man disguised as animal. Caverne des Trois Freres, Montesquieu-Avantes, Ariege, France.</li>

            <li>Map of Central America.</li>

            <li>Map of area of mushroom cult in 16<sup>th</sup> and <sup>17</sup>th centuries.</li>

            <li>Teo-nanacatl as represented by a 16<sup>th</sup>
                century Spanish artist. From Florentine codex Med. Pal. 218-220 of
                Bernardino de Sahagun's <i>Historia de las Cosas de
                Nueva Espana. By courtesy of Biblioteca Laurenziana, Florence.</i></li>

            <li>Teo-nanacatl as represented by a i6th century Mexican artist. From Magliabe-chiano codex B. R. 232. <i>By courtesy of Biblioteca Nazionale, Florence.</i></li>

            <li>Map of the Province of Oaxaca, with the Wasson journeys.</li>
        </ol>

    </body>
</html>
