<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en"
      lang="en">    
    <head>
        <title>MUSHROOMS RUSSIA AND HISTORY - Preface</title>
        <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet"
              type="text/css" />
        <meta charset="utf-8" /> 
    </head>

    <body>
        <section epub:type="preface">
            <header>
                <h1>PREFACE</h1>
            </header>

            <p><span class="initial">T</span>his book is addressed to those who love mushrooms, who love the whole rich world of wild mushrooms in the same way that many love the flowers of the field and the birds of the air. Our public is certainly one of the smallest in the English-speaking world, but no matter. We invite all to share our joys, and if few respond, we are not less happy for being few to savor the secret.</p>

            <p>There is no shortage of writings about wild mushrooms. But in English and all other languages save French the thousands of pamphlets, books, and journals on this subject seem to fall naturally into one or the other of two clusters. Around one pole are gathered the manuals that teach beginners how to tell the species apart, and around the other are the treatises written by mycologists solely for other mycologists to read. Ours is one of the few books about mushrooms written for connoisseurs by amateurs. It is the first treatment in any language of the rôle played by mushrooms in the daily lives of the varied European peoples.</p>

            <p>Strange disparities mark the attitude of these peoples toward mushrooms. There is a deep repugnance for &#8216;toadstools&#8217; among the folk that dwell around the shores of the North Sea. The persistence of this repugnance bears witness, if witness were needed, to the extraordinary toughness of an emotional heritage coming down from remotest times. The &#8216;mycophobia&#8217; of the North Sea peoples remains unshaken in the face of continuous exhortations, stretching over the past hundred years, from well-informed men of science. We suggest to the anthropologists that they will do well to include always in their cultural valuations the question whether a given people is &#8216;mycophile&#8217; or &#8216;mycophobe&#8217;, and if &#8216;mycophagous&#8217;, what species they eat and love. Here is a subtle criterion for comparative observations all the more valuable because pitched on a lowly level, where man&#8217;s superior faculties and conscious preoccupations seldom warp the ancient grain of impulses passed on to children in their early years.</p>

            <p>Our essays began as a mere footnote on the gentle art of mushroom-knowing as practiced by the northern Slavs &#8212;&#8203; a footnote in a larger work that was to have dealt with the Russians and their food. The footnote grew, and rose in status to a place in the body of the text, and then mushroomed into a whole chapter, and finally one chapter by fission made five. The manuscript has burst all its seams through successive revisions. If occasionally we wander from our theme, we hope the reader will be indulgent, bearing in mind that what we have written has been for our own pleasure in the spare hours of a busy life. And besides, to play a variation on a familiar French saying, je reviens toujours à mes <i><a name="mousseron-1">mousserons</a></i>; which is to say, we always hark back to our mushrooms. In a time of troubles and darkness, we wish this book to be a garland offered in tribute to those warm, rich qualities of the Russian people that wicked tyrants strive in vain to crush and extirpate.</p>

            <p>The reader who girds his loins and stays our course to the end will perceive a progress in the range and depth of information as he proceeds from chapter to chapter. This is because he is following in the authors&#8217; footsteps. The chapters have been composed over a number of years, roughly in the order in which they appear; and because they break new ground in subject and treatment, it has seemed best to let them stand as they were written, for the reader to share in the sense of adventure that the authors experienced in navigating along uncharted coasts of cultural history, never knowing what fresh discovery lay just ahead.</p>

            <p>Our subject takes us into history and folklore, into mythology and philology. The interloper treads these thickly-mined areas at his peril. We accept the risk, armed only with the caution that accompanies a full awareness of danger. We have tried to take counsel with the best authorities, and to shade our statements to conform to the evidence. We are more aware than our readers will be of the many areas of our subject that we have failed to explore. We wish we might without presumption draw an analogy between our book and those paintings of Watteau&#8217;s where only a few patches of the canvas are illumined against the broad expanse of an undefined and shadowy background.</p>

            <p>It is altogether fitting for an author to set forth his indebtedness to others, and we should do so fully here, were not the list so long and weighty that it would be unseemly and misleading on our part to associate such names with our efforts. The extent to which we have leaned on persons more knowledgeable than we will be apparent to all who know us. The patience of the learned fraternity with our questions has amazed us. Doctors and lawyers and engineers ask fees for their professional advice. But it seems that men of learning, like men of God, stand above these others, bestowing their counsel and blessings freely on all who turn unto them. In the bibliography and notes we have tried to pay our debts in full, and also to meet the needs of the more curious reader.</p>

            <p>Without my husband&#8217;s enthusiasm and help this book would never have come to term, and I insist on making clear that he is personally responsible for the recondite lore concerning toads, vanished words, poisons, and many other matters in chapters IV and V. The first-person pronouns in our text shift occasionally, and in chapters IV and V regularly, from the singular to the plural: there is method in this, for the plural pronouns usually evidence my husband&#8217;s contributions to our joint undertaking.</p>

            <p>We gladly make special mention also of our debt to Roman Jakobson, the Samuel H. Cross Professor of Slavic studies at Harvard University, who combines in equal degree vast erudition in things Slavic, exquisite standards of scholarship, and the infectious enthusiasm of the inspired teacher. Desiring to determine what the Basque language might have to contribute to our theme, we solicited the counsel of Professor René Lafon, holder of the Basque chair at the University of Bordeaux. Generously he lent us his collaboration in what he considered a novel area for research, and in a series of communications, admirable for their blend of imaginative insight and scholarly discipline, he undertook to explore with us, for the first time in Basque scholarship, the rich and tantalizing Basque mushroom vocabulary. Some of the fruits of that epistolary interchange will be revealed in the ensuing pages, but it is to be hoped that Professor Lafon himself will find time to incorporate the full results of our joint endeavors in a monograph that he alone is qualified to compose. We are specially beholden also to Robert Graves, novelist, scholar, and poet, who supplied to us, among other brilliant suggestions, the missing link that we had been seeking in order to round out our own conjecture concerning the death of the Emperor Claudius, and to render that conjecture not merely suggestive but (we make bold to hope) persuasive. We believe that by re-reading the age-worn texts in the light of present-day knowledge, we can state with some assurance exactly what lethal agents were used when, at the behest of the Empress Agrippina, Locusta undertook to dispose of Agrippina&#8217;s august spouse. We are under obligations to many libraries for their cooperation, but most of all to The New York Public Library, equally rich in its treasures and in its always courteous and efficient personnel &#8212; a unique institution, which the community on whom it depends fails to esteem at its priceless worth.</p>

            <p>We reserve the last paragraphs of this preface for our illustrations. The whole world knows that Jean-Henri Fabre was a close observer of insects, a distinguished writer, and a person of rare spiritual quality. Only a few know that he devoted many hours of his life, in the decade that followed 1885, to painting mushrooms in water-color. His accurate observation was matched by his artistic sensibility. Today hundreds of these pictures lie on the shelf of his study at Sérignan in the Provence, as fresh in color as the day he painted them, on excellent stock, assembled neatly in the folders where he laid them. He painted all his mushrooms in their natural size, save one that was too big for his paper and that he never succeeded in identifying. During his life-time he sought a publisher for them, but when he failed to obtain the assurance that the colors would be truly rendered, he chose to leave them, on the shelf. He wrote little about mushrooms, but in <i>The Life of the Fly</i> he said they were his botanical joys from his earliest youth, and he went on to predict sadly that the pile of hundreds of sheets of his paintings would eventually be shifted from cupboard to cupboard and from attic to attic, to become dirtied and stained and for rats to gnaw, until finally they would fall into the hands of some little grandnephew, to be cut into paper caps.</p>

            <p>The home of Fabre is now the property of the State, and comes under the jurisdiction of the Muséum National d&#8217;Histoire Naturelle, Paris. To that institution we turned, and through the intercession of the Director of the Laboratoire de Cryptogamie, Professor Roger Heim, Membre de l&#8217;Institut, the Assemblée des Professeurs of the Muséum graciously granted to us the privilege that we sought.</p>

            <p>In May 1950 my husband undertook a pilgrimage to remote Sérignan to see the Fabre water-colors, and he picked out more than a dozen for our book. Two years later, finding himself again in Paris, he called once more on Professor Heim, who by now had become the Director of the Muséum National, a worthy successor in that great post to the illustrious Buffon. Indeed, he sits at Buffon&#8217;s very table, in Buffon&#8217;s very room, where the elegant 18<sup>th</sup> century furnishings have remained unchanged, the walls adorned with the graceful 18<sup>th</sup> century oils of Jean-Jacques Bachelier, depicting the birds of the several continents. The Museum National d&#8217;Histoire Naturelle is one of the fine expressions of French cultural achievement, wherein advanced research and teaching in the natural sciences are always suffused with a deep understanding of the humanities. In Professor Heim the Museum National has once again found a chief who combines in the highest measure those rare qualities of mind and heart that have long distinguished the faculty of that extraordinary institution.</p>

            <p>Professor Heim proposed to my husband a second visit to Sérignan, and this time he himself could go too. Thus it came about that in July 1952 I joined them, and together we set out for the Midi, driving by easy stages so as to enjoy the lovely and storied landscapes through which we passed, and the food and wines as well. (Alas, around mid-July there is a dead-spell in the procession of mushroom growths, and we found none on the menus of the hostelries where we stopped.) Finally we arrived in the village of Sérignan.</p>

            <p>When Fabre had acquired his <i>harmas</i>, as any miserable patch of arid land such as his was called in his native Provençal tongue, it was a waste, but with the passing years the bushes and trees that he planted have grown to their full height, beneath their foliage his fountain plays quietly in the basin, and what was long ago the parched <i>harmas</i> has grown into one of the most enticing, shaded recesses of the warm and caressing countryside of Provence. Fittingly, the property is in the custody of Henri Fabre&#8217;s son Paul, and to this day it is called <i>l&#8217;Harmas</i>, though this is become a misnomer.</p>

            <p>In Sérignan, with Professor Heim&#8217;s help, we selected ten additional water-colors. Henri Fabre had not of course our needs in mind, and so it happens that in his whole wonderful collection we found no examples of two species of mushrooms about which we speak at length, the boletus æreus and the tricholoma georgii or gambosum. By way of compensation we reproduce a number of water-colors that are unrelated to our text, solely for their beauty. Professor Heim has been our guide in the scientific designations that we apply to the species pictured by Fabre.</p>

            <p>At our request the Muséum National handed over the water-colors that we had chosen to the atelier of Daniel Jacomet in Paris, for reproduction in their original size by the pochoir process. We should like to think that Henri Fabre, could he see the results, would be well pleased.</p>
          </section>
          <footer>
            <p><span class="pull-right">VALENTINA P. WASSON</span></p>

            <p><i>New York, October 1953</i></p>
          </footer>
    </body>
</html>
